# Inference script examples for edge classification/regression
This folder provides example yaml configurations for edge classification and regression inference tasks. The configurations include:

  * ``ml_ec_infer.yaml`` defines an edge classification task on the ``(user, rating, movie)`` edges. The target label field is ``rate``. It uses a single-layer RGCN model as its graph encoder.

  * ``ml_ec_text_infer.yaml`` defines an edge classification task on the ``(user, rating, movie)`` edges. The target label field is ``rate``. It uses a single-layer RGCN model as its graph encoder. The input node features of ``movie`` nodes and ``user`` nodes will be produced by a BERT model during inference.

  * ``ml_lm_ec_infer.yaml`` defines an edge classification task on the ``(user, rating, movie)`` edges. The target label field is ``rate``. It uses a language model, i.e., the BERT model, as its graph encoder. The node features of ``movie`` nodes and ``user`` nodes are produced by the BERT model during inference.

  * ``ml_er_infer.yaml``defines an edge regression task on the ``(user, rating, movie)`` edges. The target label field is ``rate``. It uses a single-layer RGCN model as its graph encoder.

You can find the corresponding training configurations in ``training_scripts/gsgnn_ep/README``.

The following example script shows how to launch a GraphStorm edge classification inference task.
You may need to change the arguments according to your tasks.
For more detials please refer to https://graphstorm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cli/model-training-inference/index.html.

```
python3 -m graphstorm.run.gs_edge_classification \
    --inference \
    --workspace graphstorm/inference_scripts/ep_infer/ \
    --num-trainers 4 \
    --num-servers 1 \
    --num-samplers 0 \
    --part-config /data/movielen_100k_multi_label_ec/movie-lens-100k.json \
    --ip-config ip_list.txt \
    --ssh-port 2222 \
    --cf ml_ec_infer.yaml \
    --restore-model-path /data/gsgnn_ec/epoch-2/ \
    --save-prediction-path /data/gsgnn_ec/prediction/
```

The script loads a paritioned graph from ``/data/movielen_100k_multi_label_ec/movie-lens-100k.json``
and a pre-trained model from ``/data/gsgnn_ec/epoch-2/`` to do edge classification inference.
The script loads all the inference task specific configurations from ``ml_ec_infer.yaml``.
The prediction results are saved in ``/data/gsgnn_ec/prediction/``.

Note: All example movielens graph data are generated by ``tests/end2end-tests/create_data.sh``.
